Update Steering committee guidelines (#49)
ansible/community-docs: ansible_community_steering_committee.rst

* `Ansible Collection Requirements <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_requirements.rst>`_.
* `Ansible Collection Inclusion Checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_checklist.md>`_.

Community Topics Workflow
-------------------------

The Committee uses the `Community-topics workflow <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/blob/main/community_topics_workflow.md>`_ to asynchronously discuss and vote on the `community-topics <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/issues>`_.

The quorum, the minimum number of Committee members who must vote on a topic in order for a decision to be officially made, is half of the whole number of the Committee members. 

> If the quorum number contains a fractional part, it is rounded using standard rules for rounding whole numbers. For example, if there are thirteen members currently in the committee, the quorum will be seven.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the quorum number contains a fractional part, it is rounded up to the next whole number. For example, if there are thirteen members currently in the committee, the quorum will be seven.
```
There are two 'standard rules' for rounding to whole numbers: rounding up once the fractional part is >= 0.5, and round half to even where 0.5 is rounded up or down depending on whether the next integer is even or odd (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rounding#Round_half_to_even).

Let's define something explicit here which is simple, like always rounding up :)

Author: I like it, sounds fair:)

> In case of equal numbers of votes for and against a topic, the chairperson's vote will be used as a casting vote to resolve the deadlock. For example, if there are six votes for and six votes against a topic, and the chairperson's vote is among those six which are for the topic, the final decision will be positive. If the chairperson has not voted yet, other members ask them to vote.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case of equal numbers of votes for and against a topic, the chairperson's vote will be used as a deciding vote to resolve the deadlock. For example, if there are six votes for and six votes against a topic, and the chairperson's vote is among those six which are for the topic, the final decision will be positive. If the chairperson has not voted yet, other members ask them to vote.
```
If we change this term here, we should also change it in steering_committee_membership_guidelines.rst.  I'm interested if other reviewers agree on the wording.

Author: i think this is an official term "casting vote" for this thing, isn't it?

Reviewer 2: I looked it up and you're right - I never heard that use before so TIL!

Author: > I looked it up and you're right - I never heard that use before so TIL!

I'd never heard of that before today too, so TIL as well:)

> In case of equal numbers of votes for and against a topic, the chairperson's vote will be used as a casting vote to resolve the deadlock. For example, if there are six votes for and six votes against a topic, and the chairperson's vote is among those six which are for the topic, the final decision will be positive. If the chairperson has not voted yet, other members ask them to vote.

Reviewer: Should we add something for the case of votes with more than two options? Like: the winning option must have at least half of the SC votes?

Author: Sounds sensible to me! if you suggest a wording, it would be great

Reviewer: Maybe something like:
```suggestion
Votes must always have "no change" as an option.

In case of equal numbers of votes for and against a topic, the chairperson's vote will be used as a casting vote to resolve the deadlock. For example, if there are six votes for and six votes against a topic, and the chairperson's vote is among those six which are for the topic, the final decision will be positive. If the chairperson has not voted yet, other members ask them to vote.

For votes with more than two options, one choice must have at least half of the votes. If two choices happen to both have half of the votes, the chairperson's vote will be used as a casting vote. If no choice has at least half of the votes, the vote choices have to be adjusted so that a majority can be found for a choice in a new vote.
```

Author: I like it:) Thanks! committed

Collection Inclusion Requests Workflow
--------------------------------------

> When reviewing community collection `inclusion requests <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion/discussions>`_, the Committee members check if a collection adheres the `Community collection requirements <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_requirements.rst>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When reviewing community collection `inclusion requests <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion/discussions>`_, the Committee members check if a collection adheres to the `Community collection requirements <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_requirements.rst>`_.
```

#. A Committee member who conducts the inclusion review copies the `Ansible community collection checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_checklist.md>`_ into a corresponding `discussion <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion/discussions>`_.

#. In the course of the review, the Committee member marks items as completed or leaves a comment saying whether the reviewer expects an issue to be addressed or whether it is optional (for example, it could be **MUST FIX:** <what> or **SHOULD FIX:** <what> under an item).

#. For a collection to be included in the Ansible community package, the collection must be reviewed and approved by, at least, two Committee members.

> #. After the collection gets two or more Committee member approvals, a Committee member creates a `community topic <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/issues>`_ linked to the corresponding inclusion request. The issue's description says that the collection has been approved by two or more Committee members and establishes a date (a week by default) when the inclusion decision will be considered made. This term can be used to raise the concerns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. After the collection gets two or more Committee member approvals, a Committee member creates a `community topic <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/issues>`_ linked to the corresponding inclusion request. The issue's description says that the collection has been approved by two or more Committee members and establishes a date (a week by default) when the inclusion decision will be considered made. This time period can be used to raise concerns.
```
This was unclear to me at first.  I'm not sure if this is a better way to phrase it (if I understood your meaning correctly) but maybe other reviewers can comment.

* `Ansible Collection Requirements <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_requirements.rst>`_.
* `Ansible Collection Inclusion Checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_checklist.md>`_.

Community Topics Workflow
-------------------------

The Committee uses the `Community-topics workflow <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/blob/main/community_topics_workflow.md>`_ to asynchronously discuss and vote on the `community-topics <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/issues>`_.

The quorum, the minimum number of Committee members who must vote on a topic in order for a decision to be officially made, is half of the whole number of the Committee members. If the quorum number contains a fractional part, it is rounded up to the next whole number. For example, if there are thirteen members currently in the committee, the quorum will be seven.

Votes must always have "no change" as an option.

> In case of equal numbers of votes for and against a topic, the chairperson's vote will be used as a casting vote to resolve the deadlock. For example, if there are six votes for and six votes against a topic, and the chairperson's vote is among those six which are for the topic, the final decision will be positive. If the chairperson has not voted yet, other members ask them to vote.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In case of equal numbers of votes for and against a topic, the chairperson's vote will break the tie. For example, if there are six votes for and six votes against a topic, and the chairperson's vote is among those six which are for the topic, the final decision will be positive. If the chairperson has not voted yet, other members ask them to vote.
```

Author: As you're not the first person who hasn't heard of the term, let's change it:) "tie-breaking" is also fine. Thanks for the alternative!

> For votes with more than two options, one choice must have at least half of the votes. If two choices happen to both have half of the votes, the chairperson's vote will be used as a casting vote. If no choice has at least half of the votes, the vote choices have to be adjusted so that a majority can be found for a choice in a new vote.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For votes with more than two options, one choice must have at least half of the votes. If two choices happen to both have half of the votes, the chairperson's vote will break the tie. If no choice has at least half of the votes, the vote choices have to be adjusted so that a majority can be found for a choice in a new vote.
```

* `Ansible Collection Requirements <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_requirements.rst>`_.
* `Ansible Collection Inclusion Checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_checklist.md>`_.

Community Topics Workflow
-------------------------

The Committee uses the `Community-topics workflow <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/blob/main/community_topics_workflow.md>`_ to asynchronously discuss and vote on the `community-topics <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/issues>`_.

> The quorum, the minimum number of Committee members who must vote on a topic in order for a decision to be officially made, is half of the whole number of the Committee members. 
> 
> If the quorum number contains a fractional part, it is rounded up to the next whole number. For example, if there are thirteen members currently in the committee, the quorum will be seven.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quorum, the minimum number of Committee members who must vote on a topic in order for a decision to be officially made, is half of the whole number of the Committee members. If the quorum number contains a fractional part, it is rounded up to the next whole number. For example, if there are thirteen members currently in the committee, the quorum will be seven.
```
I don't think this needs to be two paragraphs.

Author: Agreed, merged, thanks:)

If the quorum number contains a fractional part, it is rounded up to the next whole number. For example, if there are thirteen members currently in the committee, the quorum will be seven.

Votes must always have "no change" as an option.

In case of equal numbers of votes for and against a topic, the chairperson's vote will be used as a casting vote to resolve the deadlock. For example, if there are six votes for and six votes against a topic, and the chairperson's vote is among those six which are for the topic, the final decision will be positive. If the chairperson has not voted yet, other members ask them to vote.

> For votes with more than two options, one choice must have at least half of the votes. If two choices happen to both have half of the votes, the chairperson's vote will be used as a casting vote. If no choice has at least half of the votes, the vote choices have to be adjusted so that a majority can be found for a choice in a new vote.

Reviewer 4: > If no choice has at least half of the votes, the vote choices have to be adjusted so that a majority can be found for a choice in a new vote.

I'm fine with leaving this as is because it's probably rare, but it is somewhat ambiguous as to _how_ that adjustment happens.

We could do a runoff type of thing, and just eliminate the choice with fewest votes (but instead of automatically reallocating we have a new vote like already suggested).

Anyway this is totally non-blocking, it can even be decided per vote how to handle the situation, since again I think it's probably going to be rare.

Reviewer: I think it is not necessary to specify how to exactly proceed, since it will depend a lot on the situation (what the choices are). Maybe a new compromise can be found and voted on. In any case, the new selection is voted on again, and keeping status quo is still an option in it, so if a popular choice was kicked off, people will vote against it. So if you actually want the vote to eventually pass, you better leave away options that weren't too popular, or try to find a compromise.

Author: OK, we'll leave it as is or someone has other suggestions?:) I'm personally fine with this as is.
